---
date: 2018-06-23
title: "Scribble"
summary: "bored on the bus.. a collection of teaching-related notes that I think worked out this year"
tags: ["cmu", "useful"]
---

# Strategies

- Ask them to draw a picture of the starting state and the final state.
	- Reason: Separate figuring out "what to do" from "how to do it"
	- Make sure they can:
		- relate variables to the picture
		- do a toy example by hand, entirely justified by the picture
	- They may need guiding for intermediate states
		- empirically, going backwards easier than going forwards
		- simplify the problem, get them to figure out what they need
		- reaction pathways, really..
	- especially useful for: C0VM, malloc, collect

- Come up with systematic approaches and encourage their use.
	- Reason: If people are stuck on a problem, either 1. they don't have the right tool or 2. they're not applying the tool correctly. This addresses the former, helping the latter should be easy.
	- e.g. 122 style proofs encourage you
		1. write down what assumptions you're starting from
		2. write down what you want to prove
		3. write down any useful equivalences
	- e.g. 150 structural induction problems generally solvable by
		1. step
		2. reverse step
		3. IH
		4. lemma
		5. invent lemma (almost never a good idea to mention this one...)
	- e.g. tracing 150 CPS
		- substitute every continuation with s0 s1 ... and you find that they look the same
		- like built-in error checking, patterns will guide your work

- Make sure they understand what they're required to do for credit.
	- Credit: 122 internal TA training
	- Reason: Amazingly, people do not know what they are required to do for credit.
	- I've had people who were stuck on optional things for hours.. without realizing it was optional.

- Always end with "explain in your own words back to me" before leaving someone at OH.
	- Reason: Most people don't take good notes as they're getting help. Make sure they know what to do after you go and have a logical sequence of steps in mind.
	- Plus they feel like they learned something this way.
	- Bonus points if you can make it sound like they were there all along, just missing tiny steps.
		- Need to build up their confidence wherever possible to prevent the "frozen in OH" where they stare into space until a TA gets there. They should keep trying.

# Motivators

- Learn to draw analogies to Python.
	- Reason: Most people "know" Python, more likely to pay attention, concepts often transfer
	- range/generators: lazy programming, concurrency
	- list comprehensions: map + filter, powerful!! readable!!
	- Fun stuff to make them feel special and all
		- C0VM: dis.dis

- Functional programming in general
	- Don't tell computer what to do, tell computer what you want
	- No side-effects = no jumping around a codebase to figure out how a function works
	- Particularly well suited to transforming data

# Personal Anti-tilt

- Two-strike rule for RTFM responses, after which leave their Piazza post alone
- Distinguish between people there for homework help, and people there to learn

# Misc

- 251 reductions: draw a table. List the variables of problem A on the left, and problem B on the right. Then you just need to connect arrows.

i'm free! time to stop for now
