---
date: 2020-11-22
title: "Back"
summary: "unstuck"
tags: ["musings"]
---

I actually ate very few tomatoes growing up. It turns out that you need to cut a little deeper to get rid of mold; you can still taste the mold after removing all visible mold.

Probably the most mold I've eaten in a while, heh. My fault for not using it up sooner.

---

I think I finally see a way of not exhausting weirdness budget with the catalog DSL refactor. Optimistic that this approach will pan out and that I won't look back at it and be like this was a terrible idea.

Technically, the same approach should be applied to sema checking and the parser. The latter is what the duck people did and it does look nice.

The question for me is, why didn't I think of this last week? Have I gotten that much worse at programming? The high-level principle is literally just modularizing things. Oh well.

---

Dreamed about someone who's been gone for a while recently. Monday's talk reminded me of her. Amazing how much one teacher can influence and stick with you; I owe her a lot but can only pay it forward now.

I'm lucky to have met multiple mentor figures whom I can trust. In the past few years, people come, people go. Databases and Andy are some of the reliable constants in my life right now. From breaking childish fasts every Tuesday lunch to appear normal, to getting graduate school as a target to aim for, and now even more.

Three summers ago, one summer night. An argument over text, a ledge, and a choice. But stupid as it was, a paper deadline was tomorrow, and that was enough to keep going. The opposite of karoshi? Interesting origin story for my first pub, I suppose, though it wasn't accepted until much later.

So, for the foreseeable decade: databases!

---

I used to have minimal interest in hardware for the same reason I had minimal interest in physics -- can't afford the fancy equipment, so it didn't make sense to me to research much more beyond what I had.

This is no longer as true, and M1 is making for interesting times. As good a reason as it gets for starting to pay more attention to hardware.

---

Starting to hit my working stride again.

